docs/columns.rst, before:

Columnar Output
===============

The ``io.aviso.columns`` namespace is what's used by the exceptions namespace to format the exceptions, properties, and stack traces.

The ``format-columns`` function is provided with a number of column definitions, each of which describes the width and justification of a column. 
Some column definitions are just a string to be written for that column, such as a column separator.
``format-columns`` returns a function that accepts a StringWriter (such as ``*out*``) and the column values.

``write-rows`` takes the function provided by ``format-columns``, plus a set of functions to extract column values,
plus a seq of rows.
In most cases, the rows are maps, and the extraction functions are keywords (isn't Clojure magical that way?).

Here's an example, from the exception namespace:

.. code-block:: clojure

  (defn- write-stack-trace
    [writer exception]
    (let [elements (->> exception expand-stack-trace (map preformat-stack-frame))
          formatter (c/format-columns [:right (c/max-value-length elements :formatted-name)]
                                      "  " (:source *fonts*)
                                      [:right (c/max-value-length elements :file)]
                                      2
                                      [:right (->> elements (map :line) (map str) c/max-length)]
                                      (:reset *fonts*))]
      (c/write-rows writer formatter [:formatted-name
                                      :file
                                      #(if (:line %) ": ")
                                      :line]
                    elements)))

Commit message:

Remove io.aviso.writer namespace

docs/columns.rst, after:

Columnar Output
===============

The ``io.aviso.columns`` namespace is what's used by the exceptions namespace to format the exceptions, properties, and stack traces.

The ``format-columns`` function is provided with a number of column definitions, each of which describes the width and justification of a column. 
Some column definitions are just a string to be written for that column, such as a column separator.
``format-columns`` returns a function that accepts the column values and writes the formatted column data to *out*.

``write-rows`` takes the function provided by ``format-columns``, plus a set of functions to extract column values,
plus a seq of rows.
In most cases, the rows are maps, and the extraction functions are keywords (isn't Clojure magical that way?).

Here's an example, based on code in the exception namespace:

.. code-block:: clojure

  (defn ^:private write-stack-trace
    [exception]
    (let [elements (->> exception expand-stack-trace (map preformat-stack-frame))
          formatter (c/format-columns [:right (c/max-value-length elements :formatted-name)]
                                      "  " (:source *fonts*)
                                      [:right (c/max-value-length elements :file)]
                                      2
                                      [:right (->> elements (map :line) (map str) c/max-length)]
                                      (:reset *fonts*))]
      (c/write-rows formatter
                    [:formatted-name
                     :file
                     #(if (:line %) ": ")
                     :line]
                    elements)))
